Historical engineering notes for NN6 Power Plan 2.3.5 and earlier.
Current product: Game Power Plan Switcher 2.3.6. Use README.md and RELEASE-VERIFICATION.txt for current commands and checks. Version-specific claims below remain historical.

Current release: 2.3.5 (2026-10-06). See IMPLEMENTATION.txt for topology, pending command receipts, compact footer, settings and specification corrections. RELEASE-VERIFICATION.txt records the current evidence; older version-specific notes and benchmarks below remain historical.

NN6 POWER PLAN NATIVE 2.3.5 — ADAPTIVE PRO INTERFACE

This guide describes the implemented UI and controller contract. It is not a
verification report. Consult the release verification report for measured test
results. Historical review builds are not part of this release.

WINDOW, THEME AND DENSITY

Expanded is 800 × 600 logical pixels. Compact is 584 × 526 and is the default
for a new or missing preference file. The title-bar
Compact/Expand button changes the saved size preset. A saved Expanded choice
stays Expanded after upgrading; startup does not reset it to Compact.
Resizing below 720 logical
pixels also selects the compact presentation. Content uses 8px outer margins,
6px gaps, 10px card padding, and 28px actions/inputs. The chart is 60px high in
Expanded and 24px in Compact. Windows DPI scaling applies to these logical sizes.

Use the moon button to change light/dark appearance manually. That turns off
Follow Windows theme. Settings → Window & keys → Follow Windows theme uses the
Windows application color preference. Both themes cover controls, cards, fields,
dialogs and scrollbars. The light palette has a #F5F5F7 canvas, white surfaces
and #1D1D1F primary text. Body text is 11px; secondary text is at least 10px.
Measured numeric values use a monospaced Windows font and fixed chip geometry.

Settings → Window & keys → Native window frame replaces the custom red/yellow
capsule with the OS title bar and its native system menu/window controls. Native
Snap behavior remains controlled by Windows. The custom frame retains the
compact/expanded preset, drag area and lower-right resize target. Reduce interface
motion uses immediate transitions. The simulated glass does not blur other apps.

Repeated launches restore the existing GUI for the same user and Windows
session. A same-user mutex and bounded SHOW pipe run before Slint initialization;
they do not start another renderer/engine simply to discover an existing window.
An early SHOW is retained through startup and overrides only the pending initial
minimize action, without changing the saved Start minimized preference. A crash
releases/abandons the kernel ownership for the next launch. Older NN6 builds
without this protocol can still require an explicit migration/handover.
Version 2.3.3 also requests a silent tray notice for the duplicate launch, only
when the original GUI already has a registered tray icon. At most one notice is
attempted per five seconds. Windows can suppress it; restoring the GUI does not
depend on a balloon appearing. Requests discarded by Windows are not replayed.

The renderer remains Slint FemtoVG over OpenGL, introduced in version 2.3.2.
An OpenGL-capable driver is required. This implementation change does not claim
a fixed memory reduction or performance result on every GPU. A hidden/minimized
main window retains incoming engine state and defers visible model/chart/layout
updates until shown again. Power monitoring, recovery and tray state continue.
An enabled HUD still requests the telemetry it displays; disabling it drops its
window/component resources instead of retaining a hidden graphics context.
The main surface can remain cached by Slint/the driver. The previous release's
RAM/CPU comparison is historical 2.3.2 evidence, not a measurement of this revision.

LIVE OVERVIEW

Current Plan shows the actual active plan name and process-monitor state. Start
monitoring / Pause controls the existing engine. Startup controls the per-user
native startup entry. When an older monitor owns the shared lock, use the explicit
handover button before taking control; the UI does not silently disable it.

The CPU chart contains measured Windows CPU busy-time samples over the trailing
30 seconds. Emerald and cyan distinguish P/E series; the neutral series is the
valid-core mean. Amber markers identify recorded plan changes. Hover the chart
for the sample timestamp, total CPU measurement and associated plan information.
Missing sample intervals remain gaps. Hover a core for its physical/logical
identity and measurement detail. A measured 0% is valid; unavailable is —.
These are sampled Windows utilization values, not instantaneous scheduler traces
or a claim about which process owns a core.

Topology is read once from GetLogicalProcessorInformationEx at GUI startup;
vendor and model use supported CPUID identity leaves. Counts distinguish physical
cores from their logical threads. Live PDH values map by Windows processor group
and group-local logical index, so SMT siblings and repeated indices are not mixed.
Click the info button beside Live CPU to inspect the model and detection summary.

For Intel with distinct efficiency classes, sections read P-CORES (emerald) and
E-CORES (cyan). Higher class denotes the performance tier relative to other
reported classes. Homogeneous classes remain neutral C, even when zero; a zero
class alone is not evidence of an E-core. LP E-core identity is not inferred.

For AMD with valid cache relationships, sections read L3 GROUP 0, L3 GROUP 1, etc.
Each reports the cores/threads sharing that particular L3 and its own size.
Different sizes are reported as asymmetric L3, with the larger cache identified.
Windows L3 sharing masks are not conclusive CCD/CCX IDs or proof of 3D V-Cache:
for example, a Zen 2 CCD can contain separate CCX cache domains. No model-name or
cache-size guess is substituted for reported topology. Unknown mappings keep a
neutral logical-processor section. CPU years/models are not a test certification.

The grid button toggles labeled chips and micro-heatmap. Labeled chips are 18px
high with 4px gaps; all processors remain available in one scrollable viewport.
Compact heatmap has 8 columns and Expanded has 16. Each topology section retains
its heading, and groups exceeding the viewport scroll. Heatmap cells retain hover
descriptions. No fixed simultaneously visible chip count is implied by grouping.

The Gaming/Default counters summarize this GUI session's observed active-plan
time. Unknown plans/disconnected periods are excluded. They are not game runtime
or lifetime usage. Estimated power savings remains unavailable without a real
energy meter and comparison baseline. The details button offers CSV/JSON export.

The horizontal timeline opens actual event details. The expanded timeline has a
scrollable newest-first history instead of a six-event limit. Select an event to
inspect source/target plans, cause, available process/PID, recorded Windows user
and measured power API duration. Legacy records without metadata say that it was
not captured. API duration is not total process-detection latency. Diagnostic JSON
includes selected event details, current error/status, detector and automation
state, the active plan, observed session/history, and the last 64 KiB of native.log.
Missing or truncated logs are labeled explicitly; failures outside the retained
tail are not included. Reading/exporting runs in a background worker. The file can
contain account, process and plan names; review it before sharing. Ordinary JSON
and CSV also include current status/error, so failures are not presented as
successful transition records.

GAME WORKSPACE

Search filters saved game profiles. Browse imports executable metadata; it does
not launch the executable. Bulk add accepts executable names separated by commas.
Running opens a read-only Windows process snapshot with searchable candidates.
For Foreground app, bring the game to the front, then return to NN6. The picker
uses the last external foreground application observed by NN6, not NN6 itself.
If none was captured, use Running. Review the name
before adding; a launcher may have a different executable than the actual game.

Discover scans supported installed-library metadata, including Steam, Epic and
accessible Xbox game locations. Auto-discover is opt-in. It refreshes reviewed
candidates and does not add every discovered executable to the watched list.
Protected/inaccessible installations can still require Browse or a process name.

Select a saved profile → Profile settings. Choose an optional power-plan override,
priority and affinity, then Save profile. Use global Gaming plan clears the
override. Blank affinity retains normal scheduling. Supported named policies
include performance, efficiency, physical and performance-physical; the physical
policies select one logical thread per physical core in a single processor group.
This is process affinity, not a BIOS-level change to SMT/Hyper-Threading. Original
scheduling is restored by the engine when monitoring stops. Windows or protected
games can deny scheduling changes; errors appear in the GUI and log.

AUTOMATION

Default behavior remains: any matching watched process can select Gaming.
Settings → Automation → Require a foreground game is optional and off by default.
When enabled, the engine also considers the foreground window. The use of Windows
events does not imply zero overhead, instant switching, or anti-cheat approval.

Switch to Default on Battery enables the DC-power guard using the configured
Default plan. AC power allows the normal game policy to resume. With this guard
enabled, an unknown power source also selects Default; it is not treated as AC.
When battery or time rules are active, a failed policy application is retried on
the next five-second policy tick, even if the observed source/time has not changed.
A successful application clears that retry. With both rules disabled, ordinary
event-driven switching is reevaluated by the next relevant event or user action.

Auto-apply process tuning is the master switch for saved per-game affinity and
priority policies.
Edit game profiles opens Workspace; there is no unused global affinity text box.
Trigger by Time of Day uses local HH:MM start/end values, including overnight
windows. The time window gates automatic game eligibility; it does not invent a
running game. Apply rule saves edited times. In-progress typing is isolated from fresh
engine snapshots so a live update cannot reset a half-typed time. Validation
failures are shown as status text.
Settings edits and imported profiles use the same transaction: preflight installed
plans, restore earlier changes, save, then restart if monitoring was active. A
pending restoration blocks the new settings. Save or synchronous restart failure
uses the previous configuration's rollback path.

POWER-PLAN TOOLS

Settings → Power contains searchable Gaming and Default plan selectors. The
adjacent icons export .pow, duplicate the selected plan, or open Windows advanced
power settings. Import .pow opens a native file picker and refreshes the plan list.
These are explicit plan-management actions; normal monitoring only activates an
existing target plan after checking the current active plan.

If Windows denies a plan-file operation for lack of privilege, Power settings
can show Retry with Windows approval. Clicking it retries the retained exact
operation through the Windows approval prompt. Monitoring stays unelevated; no
automatic elevation occurs. Elevated retry verification is recorded separately.

Best performance overlay is the existing Windows power-mode overlay. Desktop
telemetry HUD is a separate optional visible window. Overlay settings chooses its
corner, opacity and shortcut. Apply overlay saves those controls. The HUD uses real
available values and — for unavailable readings; it does not inject into a game.

TRAY AND GLOBAL SHORTCUTS

Settings → Window & keys → Close to system tray hides the main window while the
engine remains available. Start minimized launches to the tray when supported.
The tray menu and the in-app Tray controls provide Gaming/Default selection,
Pause/Resume monitoring, show the window, and Exit. Exit restores Default and
changed scheduling according to the engine's normal shutdown/recovery policy.
Pause/Resume is labeled from the current monitoring state.

The plan hotkey defaults to Ctrl + Alt + P. Apply registers it with Windows and
shows the actual success/conflict result below the field. A blank shortcut disables
that registration. The plan shortcut toggles the configured Gaming/Default plans;
it is separate from Ctrl + Enter inside NN6, which toggles monitoring. Manual plan
selection lasts until pause/resume or the next game start/exit, and the battery
guard still takes precedence. The HUD shortcut is
configured separately in Overlay settings; plan/HUD shortcuts must differ.

SENSORS AND INTEGRATIONS

Settings → Integrations shows actual provider diagnostics. GPU readings first use
an installed NVIDIA NVML driver, or supported AMD ADL Overdrive8 PMLog hardware.
The persistent worker samples nominally every two seconds while the main window
or HUD is visible. Native driver DLLs are loaded from the Windows system directory
using restricted dependency search. NN6 does not install a hardware driver or
silently download a sensor service. Unsupported devices/driver calls remain —.

The selected GPU is named. Temperature, utilization, fan percent and fan RPM are
individual optional measurements; RPM is not calculated from percent. NVML fan
values describe intended speed, not a blocked-fan diagnostic. A partially
supported direct GPU is never filled using another adapter's fallback readings.
If every direct reading fails, an existing WMI GPU may supply a complete fallback.

CPU temperature, package power and other fallback sensors still require an
existing LibreHardwareMonitor/OpenHardwareMonitor WMI provider. That separate
background worker is requested at most every ten seconds, except explicit Retry.
It cannot block direct GPU polling. Connect sensors / Retry remains usable when
measurements are unavailable. NN6 assumes no general LHM shared-memory ABI and
does not use sysinfo as a GPU sensor API. Missing sensors do not prevent process
detection and power switching.

Optional provider setup: obtain the Windows application from the upstream project
https://github.com/LibreHardwareMonitor/LibreHardwareMonitor/releases, extract it,
and run LibreHardwareMonitor.exe. Keep the provider running while using sensors
in NN6; if its build offers a WMI setting, enable that provider option. Confirm it
can display the desired readings, then use NN6 Settings → Integrations → Retry.
Some sensors require the provider itself to run with administrator privileges;
NN6 remains an ordinary-user app. Upstream hardware and privilege documentation:
https://github.com/LibreHardwareMonitor/LibreHardwareMonitor#readme

Provider values appear only when their individual calls return usable readings.
WMI poll/receipt age does not guarantee hardware acquisition freshness: the WMI
schema exposes no acquisition timestamps and its values may be externally cached.
An unchanged value proves neither freshness nor staleness. Locally expired WMI
cache values are cleared; hiding both views invalidates the fallback cache and
stops regular polling. Resuming requests fresh observations. No temperature,
wattage or energy-saving estimate is invented. These are nominal polling
intervals, not real-time deadlines; slow/unsupported provider status is explicit.

FILES AND SOURCE

Current portable release: outputs\NN6-PowerPlan-2.3.5.exe
Main UI: outputs\native\ui\app.slint
Controller: outputs\native\src\ui.rs and ui_pro.rs
GUI singleton: outputs\native\src\gui_instance.rs
CPU identity/topology: outputs\native\src\cpu_topology.rs
Sensor worker: outputs\native\src\sensors.rs
Vector branding: outputs\native\assets\icon.svg
Build and recovery details: outputs\native\README.txt and Build.ps1

Per-user engine policy: %LOCALAPPDATA%\NN6PowerPlan\native-settings.json
Appearance/tray/hotkey preferences: %LOCALAPPDATA%\NN6PowerPlan\appearance.json
Activity/errors: %LOCALAPPDATA%\NN6PowerPlan\native.log
Pending restoration: %LOCALAPPDATA%\NN6PowerPlan\recovery.json
Stable startup copy: %LOCALAPPDATA%\NN6PowerPlan\NativeApp\
Timestamped plan switches: %LOCALAPPDATA%\GamePowerPlan\switch.log
CSV/JSON/diagnostic exports use the location chosen in the native Save dialog.

Read-only topology diagnostic (no GUI/engine or power/startup mutation):
    .\NN6-PowerPlan-2.3.5.exe --topology-probe C:\Path\NN6-topology.json
Supply a writable absolute report path. The report contains model/vendor,
physical/logical counts, processor-group mappings, reported efficiency classes,
L3 domains/sizes, and explicit detection status. A missing topology is not a set
of fabricated zero-utilization values. Detection uses kernel32 plus Rust's
standard CPUID intrinsic; no extra topology crate is required. The installed
NVML integration remains pinned to nvml-wrapper 0.13.0.

The footer is a gradient profile pill with 8px padding, a bordered circular avatar,
bold nn6 and a separate muted Developer label. Hover adds a restrained emerald
glow; keyboard focus remains visible. The dialog uses a 20px display name, 11px
username and 10px subtitle, separated from badges by 12px space and a thin divider.
Badges have 4px vertical/10px horizontal padding, with 8px gaps; narrow layouts
stack them with 6px gaps using supported Slint conditional layouts.
The footer opens the embedded nn6 developer profile. Discord uses the verified
direct link and HTTPS fallback; no numeric ID entry is required. Profile data is a
public snapshot, not live Discord synchronization. About retains AboutSlint and
the dependency licenses. Prior review copies are retained until manual review.
